---
title: "What is eXtensible Markup Language (XML)?"
author: Dachan Kyong
date: 2021-08-29 10:00:00 +0900
categories: [File Format, eXtensible Markup Language (XML)]
tags: [xml]
render_with_liquid: false
---

## About XML
`XML` (eXtensible Markup Language) is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format that is both human-readable and machine-readable. It is often used for storing and exchanging structured data between different systems, applications, and platforms. XML is designed to be both flexible and extensible, allowing users to define their own custom tags and structures.

Here are some key characteristics and concepts related to XML:


## Keys To Know

### Markup Language
XML uses tags to define elements within a document. Tags are enclosed in angle brackets (`<` & `>`) and can have attributes that provide additional information about the element.

### Hierarchical Structure
XML documents have a hierarchical structure where elements can contain other elements, forming a tree-like structure.

### Elements and Attributes
- `Element`: A fundamental unit of data in an XML document, defined by a start tag and an end tag. Elements can contain other elements, text, or both.
- `Attribute`: Information associated with an element. Attributes are specified within the start tag of an element and provide additional metadata or characteristics for the element.


### Example
Here's a simple example of an XML document representing information about a book:

```bash
<book>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone</title>
    <author>J.K. Rowling</author>
    <year>1997</year>
</book>
```
{: file='xml'}

### Namespaces
XML allows the use of namespaces to avoid naming conflicts between elements from different sources or domains. Namespaces are used to qualify element and attribute names.

### Well-Formed vs. Valid XML
- `Well-Formed XML`: An XML document that adheres to the basic syntax rules of XML, such as properly nested elements, correctly closed tags, and properly quoted attribute values.
- `Valid XML`: An XML document that is not only well-formed but also conforms to a specific document structure defined by a Document Type Definition (DTD) or an XML Schema.

### Parsing and Generating
Like JSON, most programming languages offer libraries and tools to parse (read) and generate (write) XML. These libraries allow developers to convert XML data into a structured format in their programming language and vice versa.

### Usage
XML has been widely used for data exchange in various industries, including web services, configuration files, data storage, and communication between different software systems.

### Alternatives
While XML was a popular choice for data interchange in the past, other formats like JSON and YAML have gained more popularity due to their simpler syntax and ease of use. JSON, in particular, has become the dominant choice for many web APIs and data exchange scenarios.

---
---
---
---

XML remains relevant in specific contexts where more complex document structures, metadata, and namespace management are required, but for many applications, JSON's lightweight and concise syntax has become the preferred choice.